# Number of base time units in each factor level

Given a factor as returned by
[`CFfactor()`](https://r-cf.github.io/CFtime/reference/CFfactor.md) and
the [CFTime](https://r-cf.github.io/CFtime/reference/CFtime.md) instance
from which the factor was derived, this function will return a numeric
vector with the number of time units in each level of the factor.

## Usage

``` r
CFfactor_units(t, f)
```

## Arguments

- t:

  An instance of `CFTime`.

- f:

  A factor or a list of factors derived from the parameter `t`. The
  factor or list thereof should generally be generated by the function
  [`CFfactor()`](https://r-cf.github.io/CFtime/reference/CFfactor.md).

## Value

If `f` is a factor, a numeric vector with a length equal to the number
of levels in the factor, indicating the number of time units in each
level of the factor. If `f` is a list of factors, a list with each
element a numeric vector as above.

## Details

The result of this function is useful to convert between absolute and
relative values. Climate change anomalies, for instance, are usually
computed by differencing average values between a future period and a
baseline period. Going from average values back to absolute values for
an aggregate period (which is typical for temperature and precipitation,
among other variables) is easily done with the result of this function,
without having to consider the specifics of the calendar of the data
set.

If the factor `f` is for an era (e.g. spanning multiple years and the
levels do not indicate the specific year), then the result will indicate
the number of time units of the period in a regular single year. In
other words, for an era of 2041-2060 and a monthly factor on a standard
calendar with a `days` unit, the result will be
`c(31, 28, 31, 30, 31, 30, 31, 31, 30, 31, 30, 31)`. Leap days are thus
only considered for the `366_day` and `all_leap` calendars.

Note that this function gives the number of time units in each level of
the factor - the actual number of data points in the `cf` instance per
factor level may be different. Use
[`CFfactor_coverage()`](https://r-cf.github.io/CFtime/reference/CFfactor_coverage.md)
to determine the actual number of data points or the coverage of data
points relative to the factor level.

## Examples

``` r
t <- CFtime("days since 2001-01-01", "365_day", 0:364)
f <- CFfactor(t, "dekad")
CFfactor_units(t, f)
#>  [1] 10 10 11 10 10  8 10 10 11 10 10 10 10 10 11 10 10 10 10 10 11 10 10 11 10
#> [26] 10 10 10 10 11 10 10 10 10 10 11
```
